# Gajim-for-SPADE
Distributed artificial intelligence (DAI) is a subfield of Artificial Intelligence  that has gained considerable importance due to its ability to solve complex real-world problems. The primary focus of research in the field of distributed artificial intelligence has included three different areas. These are parallel AI, Distributed
problem solving(DPS) and Multi-agent systems (MAS). Parallel AI primarily refers to methodologies used to facilitate classical AI  techniques when applied to distributed hardware architectures like multiprocessor or cluster based computing. The main aim of parallel AI is to increase the speed of operation and to work on parallel threads in order to arrive at a global solution for a particular problem. Distributed problem solving is similar to parallel AI and considers how a problem can be solved by sharing the resources and knowledge between large number of cooperating modules known as Computing entity. In the resolution of distributed problems, communication between IT entities, the amount of shared information is predetermined and incorporated into the design of the IT entity. Distributed problem solving is inflexible because of integrated strategies and therefore provides little or no flexibility.
Multi-agent systems (MAS) technology allows for the development of autonomous software entities (intelligent agents) which are naturally designed to communicate with each other.
This communication enables the formation of complex interaction spaces, from which higher-level social activities such as cooperation or collaboration may emerge. In order to facilitate
the actual development of this type of systems, several frameworks have been proposed in recent years. Such frameworks, normally known as MAS platforms, usually offer certain facilities at the communication layer, the internal agent architecture, the set of development tools, etc. The initial trend where a multitude of MAS platforms were created and
coexisted for some time has moved nowadays to a situation in which many of them are either no longer supported or have been adapted to new requirements and/or functionalities.\\
In this sense, this article deepens into the current state of agent platforms, trying to analyze the existing trends, as well as their possible weaknesses, in order to propose an adequate
support to the requirements of the next generation of multiagent systems. As a result of this analysis, the paper intends to contribute with a set of open issues that may establish the
foundations for current and future supporting infrastructures for agent-based solutions.
Following this idea, the paper also includes the proposal of a new version of the SPADE1 software , a middleware for developing and executing multi-agent systems, written in
Python with the collaboration of the instant messaging client for the XMPP protocol Gajim.
According to this, the paper presents three main contributions: the first one is a study of the current situation of agent platforms and the second one is a  analysis of some relevant open
issues for the development of modern and future multi-agent systems ; and the third one is the presentation of SPADE with Gajim .
